Data schemas provide both producers and consumers in
our stream processing application with a number of important data points.
First, they helped to find the shape of the data.
When we talk about the shape of the data,
we're referring to the names of fields,
the expected values assigned to those fields and
whether certain data is optional or required.
So in this example you can see we're calling this id 123 and int.
Ben is a string for the first name.
Last name is also a string and same with the email and phone number.
They're also strings.
So what we're doing here is describing not just the shape
of the data but also the type of the data that is expected.
Think about when you've worked with JSON data in the past.
You typically expect for certain keys to be
present and for those keys to have a certain type of value.
For example, if you have an email key,
you would expect the value to be a string email address just as in this example.
SQL databases also enforce schemas.
If you try to insert an integer into a string or varchar column,
most databases will refuse to allow you to complete that request.
So I've added the annotations here.
This is the same data as we saw on
the previous section but we have here an idea to an integer a first,
a last, an email,
and a phone, they're all strings.
I can insert an integer into the first name column,
and likewise I couldn't take the last name which is
a string and insert that into the id column.
The SQL database simply won't allow it.
Importantly, schemas allow applications to be developed independently of one another.
If a downstream application can inspect the published schema of a message,
it does not necessarily need to be developed alongside
the original application to take advantage of its data.
Because of these features,
data schemas are ubiquitous and to data systems today as well as applications.
Let's go through a few examples.
Apache Avro is used extensively in the Hadoop ecosystem to aid in
communication and as you'll see shortly as well as the coffee ecosystem,
gRPC empirical buffers are used in
the popular container orchestration framework Kubernetes for most communications.
As you'll see throughout this lesson,
there's a reason that these schema technologies have become so popular.